oh boy
air travel has its own strict and
mysterious rules keep your window shades
open trade tables put away seat in the
upright position and don't try to tinkle
before takeoff wait what's that last one
again Wow why can't you use the bathroom
before takeoff and what'll happen if you
try well let's start at the head you
arrive at the airport way too early and
start wandering around trying to pass
the time
at one point you end up at an airport
coffee shop sipping on a large
cappuccino easy now you're gonna regret
that decision later ah well what's done
is done
sure enough about a half hour later
you're standing in line about to board
the plane and your body insists on
getting rid of all of that liquid you've
so recklessly gulped down told you so
whatever you think I'll head to the loo
as soon as I find my seat and so you
reach your seat stuff your carry-on in
the overhead bin and look back only to
notice the signs above all the on-board
toilets are glowing red wait there must
be some mistake we're still on the
ground they probably just forgot to
unlock them but before you can inform a
flight attendant about their mistake the
aisle is already filling with other
passengers and you have to sit down why
not make yourself comfortable while
waiting without thinking twice you
recline your seat back and relax into it
in no time you see a flight attendant
rushing towards you please return your
seat to the upright position come on
what's wrong with getting that bit of
comfort you paid for well plenty of
things right now
your recline seat is preventing
passengers in the row behind you from
getting into their seats plus if
something goes wrong and there's an
evacuation you're tilted seat won't let
them get out of their places as fast as
possible and if you keep your chair back
during landing your neighbor to the rear
can hit their head on your seat back oh
it's for your safety too if you're
lounging in a reclined position during a
crash landing your head will travel
further since it collides with the seat
back in the front of you along the way
it'll generate more force which can lead
to a serious neck or
jury and last but not least the
passenger behind you will simply hate
your guts for the duration of the trip
okay it was worth a try you hear the
engine start up you decide to scroll
through your social media feed could you
please put your phone in airplane mode
or switch it off completely we're about
to taxi to the runway it's the same
attendant again ah this is not your day
to be honest nothing dramatic will
happen if you use your phone while the
plane is taking off or landing but what
if at least 20 other passengers join you
pilots say in this situation they can
get false readings on their instruments
for example inaccurate information that
the plane is higher than it is this can
easily lead to a crash so no phone for
you better safe than sorry fine what
about my laptop no internet promise you
take the thing out of its case put your
earphones in and get ready to watch your
show previously downloaded episodes of
course that's when your neighbor starts
making some sort of hand signal like you
need to take your earphone out I
wouldn't do that if I were you
you're supposed to keep your laptop in
its bag and store it in the space in
front of you for a reason if something
goes wrong during or right after takeoff
a laptop can fly out of your hands at
race car speeds and getting hit by
what's now nothing more than an
overpriced boomerang could really do
someone in no problem
laptops going away the plane finally
starts moving and you see that fasten
your seat belt sign overhead but you
haven't gone to the bathroom yet hurry
you stand up and head for the toilet
only to be intercepted by nurse ratchet
I mean the flight attendant then you
feel the plane come to a sudden stop
could you return to your seat sit down
and fasten your seat belt please she
clearly looks like she's losing her
patience with you confused you go back
to your spot could this no bathroom
before takeoff business have something
to do with how airplane toilets work for
those you can't have a conventional
water filled bowl otherwise any slight
turbulence would make the water splash
out on board commodes our vacuum base
they really saw when you press the flush
button of valve opens and the vacuum
sends everything from the bull into a
special tank that vacuum in turn is
created thanks to the immense difference
in air pressure that's high up in the
sky the high pressure inside the cabin
pushes wets ever in the bull down and
out to where the pressure is lower ah
that must explain it no pressure
difference on the ground no flush and
not quite there's a generator in there
that can create the vacuum itself when
the plane isn't at a high enough
altitude so do they not want you to
flush the toilet before the takeoff to
save energy
well consider this just a taxi and take
off a jumbo jet uses enough energy to
power about four million laptops a few
passengers flushing the toilet during
tax saying won't change much the whole
bathroom ban mostly comes down to safety
a plane can't taxi if a single person is
out of their seat and not wearing a
safety belt and for obvious reasons
toilets don't have any seat belts it's
so that a wandering passenger doesn't
get knocked down or fall into something
in the tiny space of a bathroom there
are plenty of places to hit your head
that glass mirror looks especially scary
that's why if you insist on using the
John before takeoff the plane is likely
to stop moving altogether
and everyone on board will be waiting
for you to finish or business and such
delays have very costly consequences if
a plane stops taxing it'll lose its
place in line and have to wait for
others that are scheduled before it can
take off it doesn't matter what airline
you fly through they all have this rule
there have even been cases where
passengers were removed from their
flights because they insisted on going
to the bathroom when the plane was
already traveling toward the runway the
only loophole you can use is a tarmac
delay if it happens the cabin crew must
let you use the toilet if you need to
but the moment the plane enters a
taxiway you have to be buckled into your
seat finally the plane takes off reaches
its cruising altitude and the fasten
your seat belt signs go off you can
finally make that long-awaited bathroom
trip after returning to your seat you
notice that the cabin has gotten chilly
time to turn off that bothersome air
vent over your seat your nosy
knowledgeable neighbor starts spilling
more advice you should probably keep
that on the flow coming from the vent
blows away airborne germs that are just
waiting to enter your personal bubble
it's better to put on some extra clothes
than to turn that vent off by the way if
you often get cold on a plane choose a
seat in the back the air flow goes from
the front to the end of the cabin when
the cool air reaches the tail it's not
that cold anymore but if you want the
air you breathe to be as fresh as
possible choose a seat in the front now
if you're a nervous flyer book a morning
flight later the ground gets heated and
it causes bumpier air plus thunderstorms
are more likely in the afternoon and if
you don't want to feel the turbulence so
strongly sit near or over the wing
imagine your plane like a giant seesaw
seated in the back you'll have the
bumpiest ride but the planes central
part doesn't move as much pilots don't
care too much about turbulence though
it's pretty much harmless what they are
worried about is up trap
air moving upward because of a storm or
some other weather condition being on a
plane that's flying into a huge updraft
feels like hitting a giant speed bump at
hundreds of miles per hour
everything flies up into the air and
then suddenly drops down with a boom and
if you have a window seat try not to
sleep against the pane you can't even
imagine how many people have had their
heads pressed against those windows
before in other words you're laying your
head on a big glass bed of germs it's
better to grab a neck pillow now you're
all set thanks pal
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life
[Music]